README.md, before:

# Final Fantasy 4 Vita

<p align="center"><img src="./screenshots/game.png"></p>

This is a wrapper/port of *Final Fantasy 4 Android* for the *PS Vita*.

The port works by loading the official Android ARMv7 executable in memory, resolving its imports with native functions and patching it in order to properly run.

## Setup Instructions (For End Users)

In order to properly install the game, you'll have to follow these steps precisely:

- Install [kubridge](https://github.com/TheOfficialFloW/kubridge/releases/) and [FdFix](https://github.com/TheOfficialFloW/FdFix/releases/) by copying `kubridge.skprx` and `fd_fix.skprx` to your taiHEN plugins folder (usually `ux0:tai`) and adding two entries to your `config.txt` under `*KERNEL`:
  
```
  *KERNEL
  ux0:tai/kubridge.skprx
  ux0:tai/fd_fix.skprx
```

**Note** Don't install fd_fix.skprx if you're using repatch plugin

- **Optional**: Install [PSVshell](https://github.com/Electry/PSVshell/releases) to overclock your device to 500Mhz.
- Install `libshacccg.suprx`, if you don't have it already, by following [this guide](https://samilops2.gitbook.io/vita-troubleshooting-guide/shader-compiler/extract-libshacccg.suprx).
- Obtain your copy of *Final Fantasy 4* legally from the Google Play store in form of an `.apk` file and one or more `.obb` files (usually located inside the `/sdcard/android/obb/com.square_enix.android_googleplay.FFIV_GP/`) folder. [You can get all the required files directly from your phone](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/11012976/how-do-i-get-the-apk-of-an-installed-app-without-root-access) or by using an apk extractor you can find in the play store. The apk can be extracted with whatever Zip extractor you prefer (eg: WinZip, WinRar, etc...) since apk is basically a zip file. You can rename `.apk` to `.zip` to open them with your default zip extractor.
- Copy the `.obb` file to `ux0:data/ff4` and rename it to `main.obb`.
- Open the apk and extract `libff4.so` from the `lib/armeabi-v7a` folder to `ux0:data/ff4`.
- Install [FF4.vpk](https://github.com/Rinnegatamante/ff4_vita/releases) on your *PS Vita*.
- **Optional**: Extract the data files folder in `ux0:data` so that you'll end up having the folder `ux0:data/ff4/shaders` to have support for PostFX effects.

## Build Instructions (For Developers)

In order to build the loader, you'll need a [vitasdk](https://github.com/vitasdk) build fully compiled with softfp usage.  
You can find a precompiled version here: [Linux](https://github.com/vitasdk/buildscripts/suites/2943994805/artifacts/66184169) / [Windows](https://github.com/vitasdk/buildscripts/suites/2943994805/artifacts/66184170).  
Additionally, you'll need these libraries to be compiled as well with `-mfloat-abi=softfp` added to their CFLAGS:

- [libmathneon](https://github.com/Rinnegatamante/math-neon)

  - ```bash
    make install
    ```

- [vitaShaRK](https://github.com/Rinnegatamante/vitaShaRK)

  - ```bash
    make install
    ```

- [kubridge](https://github.com/TheOfficialFloW/kubridge)

  - ```bash
    mkdir build && cd build
    cmake .. && make install
    ```

- [vitaGL](https://github.com/Rinnegatamante/vitaGL)

  - ````bash
    make SOFTFP_ABI=1 MATH_SPEEDHACK=1 NO_DEBUG=1 NO_TEX_COMBINER=1 PHYCONT_ON_DEMAND=1 install
    ````

- [opensles](https://github.com/frangarcj/opensles)

  - ````bash
    cd libopensles
    make install
    ````
Finally, you'll need these libraries recompiled with `-mfloat-abi=softfp` from [vitasdk/packages](https://github.com/vitasdk/packages):
- sndfile
- SDL

After all these requirements are met, you can compile the loader with the following commands:

```bash
mkdir build && cd build
cmake .. && make
```

## Credits

- TheFloW for the .so loader which is the core mechanism used for this port.
- frangarcj for FF3_Vita on which this port is heavily based off.
- Darth Bellic for the Livearea assets.

Commit message:

Added instructions to get the opening video to play.

README.md, after:

# Final Fantasy 4 Vita

<p align="center"><img src="./screenshots/game.png"></p>

This is a wrapper/port of *Final Fantasy 4 Android* for the *PS Vita*.

The port works by loading the official Android ARMv7 executable in memory, resolving its imports with native functions and patching it in order to properly run.

## Setup Instructions (For End Users)

In order to properly install the game, you'll have to follow these steps precisely:

- Install [kubridge](https://github.com/TheOfficialFloW/kubridge/releases/) and [FdFix](https://github.com/TheOfficialFloW/FdFix/releases/) by copying `kubridge.skprx` and `fd_fix.skprx` to your taiHEN plugins folder (usually `ux0:tai`) and adding two entries to your `config.txt` under `*KERNEL`:
  
```
  *KERNEL
  ux0:tai/kubridge.skprx
  ux0:tai/fd_fix.skprx
```

**Note** Don't install fd_fix.skprx if you're using repatch plugin

- **Optional**: Install [PSVshell](https://github.com/Electry/PSVshell/releases) to overclock your device to 500Mhz.
- Install `libshacccg.suprx`, if you don't have it already, by following [this guide](https://samilops2.gitbook.io/vita-troubleshooting-guide/shader-compiler/extract-libshacccg.suprx).
- Obtain your copy of *Final Fantasy 4* legally from the Google Play store in form of an `.apk` file and one or more `.obb` files (usually located inside the `/sdcard/android/obb/com.square_enix.android_googleplay.FFIV_GP/`) folder. [You can get all the required files directly from your phone](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/11012976/how-do-i-get-the-apk-of-an-installed-app-without-root-access) or by using an apk extractor you can find in the play store. The apk can be extracted with whatever Zip extractor you prefer (eg: WinZip, WinRar, etc...) since apk is basically a zip file. You can rename `.apk` to `.zip` to open them with your default zip extractor.
- Copy the `.obb` file to `ux0:data/ff4` and rename it to `main.obb`.
- Open the apk and extract `libff4.so` from the `lib/armeabi-v7a` folder to `ux0:data/ff4`.
- Install [FF4.vpk](https://github.com/Rinnegatamante/ff4_vita/releases) on your *PS Vita*.
- **Optional (PostFX Effects)**: Extract the data files folder in `ux0:data` so that you'll end up having the folder `ux0:data/ff4/shaders`.
- **Optional (Opening Video Playback)**: Extract from the apk, the file  `res/raw/opening.mp4` and convert it to 1280x720 (ffmpeg can be used for this task with the command `ffmpeg -i opening.mp4 -vf scale=1280x720 output.mp4`). Once converted, copy it to `ux0:data/ff4` named as `opening.mp4`.

## Build Instructions (For Developers)

In order to build the loader, you'll need a [vitasdk](https://github.com/vitasdk) build fully compiled with softfp usage.  
You can find a precompiled version here: [Linux](https://github.com/vitasdk/buildscripts/suites/2943994805/artifacts/66184169) / [Windows](https://github.com/vitasdk/buildscripts/suites/2943994805/artifacts/66184170).  
Additionally, you'll need these libraries to be compiled as well with `-mfloat-abi=softfp` added to their CFLAGS:

- [libmathneon](https://github.com/Rinnegatamante/math-neon)

  - ```bash
    make install
    ```

- [vitaShaRK](https://github.com/Rinnegatamante/vitaShaRK)

  - ```bash
    make install
    ```

- [kubridge](https://github.com/TheOfficialFloW/kubridge)

  - ```bash
    mkdir build && cd build
    cmake .. && make install
    ```

- [vitaGL](https://github.com/Rinnegatamante/vitaGL)

  - ````bash
    make SOFTFP_ABI=1 MATH_SPEEDHACK=1 NO_DEBUG=1 NO_TEX_COMBINER=1 PHYCONT_ON_DEMAND=1 install
    ````

- [opensles](https://github.com/frangarcj/opensles)

  - ````bash
    cd libopensles
    make install
    ````
Finally, you'll need these libraries recompiled with `-mfloat-abi=softfp` from [vitasdk/packages](https://github.com/vitasdk/packages):
- sndfile
- SDL

After all these requirements are met, you can compile the loader with the following commands:

```bash
mkdir build && cd build
cmake .. && make
```

## Credits

- TheFloW for the .so loader which is the core mechanism used for this port.
- frangarcj for FF3_Vita on which this port is heavily based off.
- Darth Bellic for the Livearea assets.
